what's going on everybody rob Perry here
and today we're going to be discussing
two coffee species that pretty much rule
the world one of these coffees is
everyone's favorite and the other gets
treated like the red bearded stepchild
let's dive in although there are more
than 100 species of coffee I think
there's like 124 to be somewhere exact
the two most popular are cafea arabica
and Cafe conifera also known as Robusta
now Arabic has many different types of
varieties as typical bourbon Geisha
ketamor and many more conifera also has
a few varieties they have Robusta erecta
and Uganda which is actually grown in
Uganda but to be clear and to mitigate
any confusion I just want to make it
clear that kinefra and Robusta are kind
of used interchangeably in the coffee
industry the species itself is actually
Arabica and conifera but you know
everybody just kind of says Robusta for
the species as well in this video we're
gonna keep it as Arabica and Robusta but
just know it is actually kinefra that
makes any sense I hope it does that
deserves a coffee break now Arabica and
Robusta they differ in taste and growing
conditions to the sugar and the caffeine
content they physically look different
and one is actually a lot more expensive
than the other so let's define them both
real quick and then we'll roll into some
differences about both of them so
starting with Arabica arabico is a
species of coffee that was probably the
first to be cultivated it still makes up
a majority of the coffee that's consumed
anywhere from 55 to 70 percent depending
on the source you look at now arabica
coffee was first cultivated in Yemen
like centuries ago but it did not
originate there it actually originated
in Ethiopia which is why they call
Ethiopia the birthplace of coffee that's
where pretty much all the coffee that we
consume kind of came from that little
region so Arabica gets its name from the
Arabian Peninsula it did not originate
on the Arabian Peninsula it was brought
there just wanted to make that clear and
then there is Robusta now robust defines
its Origins and Central and sub-Saharan
Africa where it literally will just grow
wild which Arabica will grow well too
robust was discovered around the late
1800s and Robusta makes up about 30 to
45 percent of the coffee consumed now
Robusta is actually growing in market
share demand whatever you want to call
it now this is as 20 of 2022. so these
percentages May differ like you know
five ten years down the road now Arabica
and Robusta may have originated in the
same area but let's discuss some of the
major differences between them first of
all is the Taste the taste all the
subjective is very different between the
two a replica has a higher sugar content
and has like that fruity sweet Tangy
type taste you know you can get some
really good flavors from it where
Robusta is kind of Woody spicy it can be
very bitter and some will say it even
has a rubber taste now I don't know who
the first person was who actually like
tasted rubber but uh you know thanks for
taking one for the team I appreciate it
now preferred taste can be completely
different a across the world depending
on the cultures most will add milk or
some type of sugar derivative to robust
to coffee and actually can create a very
enjoyable cup to make Robusta palatable
to you know somebody like me I have to
actually change the rose profile I may
have to change my entire Brewing recipe
I may have to change the ratio I may
have to change the grind size I may have
to change the flow rate I may have to
lower the Brew Temp and I actually may
even have to just Brew it in a
completely different device and actually
think about that that could be a
different video you know best way to
make robust coffee may do that one but
with that being said don't allow the
negative press of Robusta to stop you
from experimenting with it or getting it
to try and roast or brew a different way
or anything like that companies like
coffee bean Corral and Sweet Maria's and
a few others like they all sell small
quantities of Robusta and also some
other species that I haven't talked
about yet and we'll get into future
videos and and I'll link those companies
down below if you want to go down there
check them out um Coffee Bean Corral is
one that sells Robusta I know they have
have a Vietnam I think they have an
Indian one now
so yeah go down there check them out if
you won't get you some robust and just
experiment dude the next major
difference is the growing conditions
Arabica grows at a higher elevation than
Robusta Robusta grows anywhere from sea
level to around 800 meters which is
about 2600 feet and Arabica grows
anywhere from 800 meters to 2500 plus
meters now pests and insects are more
prevalent at the lower altitudes and
Robusta is actually you know very well
adapted to a standout where Arabica
really isn't the Arabica tree is smaller
than the Robusta tree at six to eight
meters versus 10 meters for Robusta now
again as far as like growing conditions
climates different places these are just
numbers as far as like cultivation goes
out in the wild they can get pretty big
the yields also differ as well robust to
averages anywhere from 2300 to 4 000
kilograms of coffee per hectare where
Arabica averages anywhere from 1500 to
2300 kilograms per hectare now a hectare
is 2.47 Acres so kind of give you a
little math there so the largest
producer of arabica coffee is actually
Brazil now they're not exclusively
Arabica producing they they produce some
robust as well but the largest producer
of Robusta is Vietnam now again that is
as of 2022 things could obviously change
a few years from now if you know a
country like the Congo takes over and it
could get crazy the coffee industry
could just another big difference is the
caffeine content Arabica contains
anywhere from one to one point five
percent caffeine whereas robust it
contains anywhere from two to three
percent caffeine so literally about
double what a replica has now as we kind
of discussed in the cultivation portion
some insects and pests and stuff like
that are deterred because of the
caffeine content in Robusta that's what
makes it able to withstand more of the
pests and the bugs and also some of the
diseases that may affect the plant the
next thing is sugar content Arabica
contains 60 more lipids and also twice
the concentration of sugar than Robusta
this reason alone plays a big portion in
why most people would prefer arabica
coffee over Robusta they like the
sweetness of it they like that taste it
has come in the oils and stuff coming
from it now the extra sugars and lipids
and stuff like that that are in Arabic
on that that's that's a huge portion of
the roasting process this is where the
chemical reactions come from the
caramelizations the amazing Aromas of
the arapa coffee and for that reason
Arabica is usually going to be priced at
a much higher rate than Robusta coffee
and depending on the region and the
quality of that cup I mean that Gap
could be huge it could be anywhere from
a two dollar Robusta to a fifteen
hundred dollar a pound you know Arabic
coffee another difference is the uh
being appearance Arabica and Robusta
both look different in the Cherry form
their green coffee form and also their
roasted form it may be just the process
and the quality of coffee that I've
purchased that uh that is Robusta but
I've never seen it to be super clean or
uniform or consistent or anything like
that whereas if I buy some you know a
Costa Rican or a Burundi or a Kenyan or
something like that it's usually very
consistent you know the quality is
always there very minimal defects and
stuff like that robusta beans are said
to be more round like the green and the
roasted but I've roast them and honestly
uh they've been long shaped as well so I
think it really just depends I'll give
you a quick example what they kind of
look like and like how similar they can
be now remember this is just one sample
out of hundreds that are out there so
don't base too much judgment on this one
little sample size so those are the main
differences between Robusta and Arabica
as coffee cross breeds and production
spreads further into countries like the
Congo new coffee varieties and possibly
even new coffee species could be
discovered now I'll be going over some
of these in future videos I definitely
want to touch on excelsa liberica and
stinafella stenophella now look if I
butcher any of these words guys I am
sorry I'm from the south we have a hard
time speaking English although we speak
English so it's kind of tough so yeah
definitely going to be looking to make
some of those in the future I want to go
into kind of some more of the coffee
history I'll be working on that video I
want to put a lot of detail into that
one but uh yeah I hope you enjoyed this
video hit me up in the comments if you
have any questions if I butchered any
facts I'm sure somebody down there will
let me know and I look forward to
learning from you as well a lot of times
like y'all bring up things in the
comments that I didn't realize so I
appreciate any feedback that you give me
that may correct anything that I may
have said wrong thanks for tuning in try
some Robusta experiment and just enjoy
the coffee Journey dude please subscribe
if you want to see more content like
this and I will see you later
foreign
